---
title: "Profiling of parallel programs in a non-strict functional language"
author: "Ferreiro, Henrique"
university: "Universidade da Coruña"
uri:  http://hdl.handle.net/2183/16311
date: 2016-01-14 00:00:00 +0200
---
Purely functional programming languages offer many benefits to parallel programming. The absence of side effects and the provision for higher-level abstractions eases the programming effort. In particular, nonstrict functional languages allow further separation of concerns and provide more parallel facilities in the form of semi-implicit parallelism. On the other hand, because the low-level details of the execution are hidden, usually in a runtime system, the process of debugging the performance of parallel applications becomes harder. Currently available parallel profiling tools allow programmers to obtain some information about the execution; however, this information is usually not detailed enough to precisely pinpoint the cause of some performance problems. Often, this is because the cost of obtaining that information would be prohibitive for a complete program execution. In this thesis, we design and implement a parallel profiling framework based on execution replay. This debugging technique makes it possible to simulate recorded executions of a program, ensuring that their behaviour remains unchanged. The novelty of our approach is to adapt this technique to the context of parallel profiling and to take advantage of the characteristics of non-strict purely functional semantics to guarantee minimal overhead in the recording process. Our work allows to build more powerful profiling tools that do not affect the parallel behaviour of the program in a meaningful way.We demonstrate our claims through a series of benchmarks and the study of two use cases.
